[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
now we're gonna move on to functions.
What do we know about functions?
Let's see,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Joe,
what do you know about functions?
Just one thing.
>> Joe: Functions are just
small modules of code that
try to isolate a certain operation.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure, so
you can use functions for encapsulation.
What about Tanner?
What do you know about functions?
>> Tanner: This is kinda the part
where the code does something.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, so you
could think of it having like a button,
and you can hit the button and
then it goes and it runs something.
Mm-hm.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's see.
What about Ben?
>> Ben: Functions are objects.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Functions are objects!
Nice, extra points.
Let's see, who else wants to go.
William, did you wanna go?
>> William: I know that the parameters
can be passed in willy-nilly.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
you can pass arguments and
there's parameters that hold values.
Awesome, so these are all true.
So the way that I think of functions are,
they're an object, just like Ben said.
But they're an object that does something.
And the fact that functions
are objects in JavaScript,
is a really interesting concept.
The fact that we can assign them to
variables, and pass them around as data,
which we'll talk about more tomorrow when
we get into like, higher order functions,
is really, really powerful.
So that's just a cool thing.
And so we can pass them around.
And one metaphor that we use
a lot at Hack Reactor is,
we talk about how a function is a blender.
And we say,
so a blender is an object, and you can
have a factory that makes blenders.
So if you have some constructor that's
making more functions, for example,
you could do that.
And you can give the blender,
I can give the blender to Grace, and
Grace can give the blender to Kashore,
for example.
Or we could set the blender down,
put some fruit in it, right?
Arguments, and
press the button and make juice.
And so once you press the button,
that's running the function, and
the metaphor of the button
is those two parenthesis.
The fancy name for
that is the invocation operator, but
two parentheses next to each other.
And so that's sort of the metaphor of how
I think about a function as data, and
also as something,
a unit that has an action that can be run.
For the next thing that I've also
heard about to describe it is,
it takes care of some detail work that
we don't then want to be worried about.
So it's just a very easy way to do
something that then, you know it works.
Kind of abstracting it, so
I don't have to really worry about well,
how does it figure out the cube of x or
whatever, it just does it.
Yeah, yeah, totally, so
when we get into more functional concepts,
we talk about functions as units of
abstraction and actions that we can then
combine in interesting ways
that could be very powerful.
>> Speaker 6: People think of
the properties being the nouns and
the functions being the verbs.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
absolutely, I like that, so
the functions being the verbs and
objects being the nouns, cool.
>> Speaker 7: And functions are scoped.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, functions have
scope, that's super, super important.
So whenever we call a function, it creates
a scope, every time, that's important.
Did you have a question Mark?
>> Mark: [COUGH] Yeah I was
just trying to figure out,
they were asking about nesting in
the arrays chapter, do we skip that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're
gonna get to that.
>> Mark: Okay,
that's what they were wondering.
[COUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
Cool.
Sweet.
So we're just gonna do an overview
of the anatomy of the function,
really quick, and
then we're gonna go into nesting.
I just wanted to do something new,
and then we're gonna go back and
see if we still remember
the rules that don't change,
and we're gonna apply that to
a nest of data structures.
So here's just a quick
anatomy of a function.
Some key words that are important.
So we have the function definition or
declaration, and that includes
things like the keyword function, the
parentheses, and the entire function body.
And I'm sorry for
those of you who are color blind.
I put arrows to kind of help out there,
but I don't know how else to visualize it.
And so then we have the function name.
You can have a function name or you can
save an anonymous function to a variable.
Both ways you can refer to the function
later, just like a variable.
Then we have the parameters,
which are a and b in this case here.
A and b.
And then our perimeters get
values during call-time,
they get values when we
pass them arguments here.
And then call-time is when
we have the two parentheses.
That's when we press that go button,
and we also call that call-time,
invoking the function, I don't know,
that's all I can think of right now.
>> Speaker 9: Do I have,
do we have to put var, I mean,
do we have to, when we define it?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No.
>> Speaker 9: We don't,
but is that a global scope thing?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
its a hoisting thing, so
I recommend that you always just say
var function name equals function.
Yeah, it has to do with hoisting and
scope,
and it can get a little hairy
if you're not careful, so